# 7. Flexbox and Grid

## **7.1. Flexbox Layout:**
Flexbox is a layout model that allows you to design complex layouts with ease. In Tailwind CSS, you can use the `flex` utility classes to control the behavior of flex containers and items. Here's an example:

```html
<div class="flex">
  <div class="flex-1">Item 1</div>
  <div class="flex-2">Item 2</div>
  <div class="flex-1">Item 3</div>
</div>
```

In this example, we have a flex container with three items. The `flex-1` and `flex-2` classes define the relative size of the items within the container.

## **7.2. Grid Layout:**
Grid layout allows you to create two-dimensional layouts. Tailwind CSS provides utility classes for working with grid layouts as well. Here's a basic example:

```html
<div class="grid grid-cols-2 gap-4">
  <div>Item 1</div>
  <div>Item 2</div>
  <div>Item 3</div>
  <div>Item 4</div>
</div>
```

In this example, we create a grid container with two columns and a gap of 4 units between items.

## **7.3. Justify and Align Utilities:**
Tailwind CSS offers utility classes for justifying and aligning content within containers. For instance:

```html
<div class="flex justify-center items-center">
  Centered Content
</div>
```

The `justify-center` class horizontally centers the content, and the `items-center` class vertically centers it.

## **7.4. Order Classes:**
You can change the order of elements using the `order` utility class:

```html
<div class="flex">
  <div class="order-2">Item 1</div>
  <div class="order-1">Item 2</div>
  <div class="order-3">Item 3</div>
</div>
```

In this example, the items will be displayed in the order specified by the `order` classes.

## **7.5. Flexbox and Grid Auto-Placement:**
Flexbox and Grid in Tailwind CSS can automatically place items if you don't specify a specific position. For example:

```html
<div class="grid grid-cols-3">
  <div>Item 1</div>
  <div>Item 2</div>
  <div>Item 3</div>
  <div>Item 4</div>
</div>
```

In this case, the items will be automatically placed in the grid according to the specified number of columns.
