# 4. CRUD Operations

## **1. Create, Read, Update, Delete (CRUD) Operations:**

- **Create (Insert):** This operation involves adding new data (documents) to a database. In MongoDB, you can insert a document into a collection. Here's an example of inserting a new document into a "contacts" collection:

  ```json
  // Inserting a new document
  db.contacts.insertOne({
    "name": "Alice",
    "email": "alice@example.com",
    "age": 28
  })
  ```

- **Read (Query):** Reading data from a database is a common operation. You can retrieve documents from a collection based on various criteria. Here's an example of querying to find all contacts older than 25:

  ```json
  // Querying for documents
  db.contacts.find({
    "age": { $gt: 25 }
  })
  ```

- **Update:** Updating data allows you to modify existing documents. Here's an example of updating Alice's age from 28 to 30:

  ```json
  // Updating a document
  db.contacts.updateOne(
    { "name": "Alice" },
    { $set: { "age": 30 } }
  )
  ```

- **Delete:** Deletion is the process of removing data from a database. You can delete one or multiple documents based on specific criteria. Here's an example of deleting all contacts older than 35:

  ```json
  // Deleting documents
  db.contacts.deleteMany({
    "age": { $gt: 35 }
  })
  ```

## **2. Querying Documents:**

- Querying documents allows you to filter and retrieve specific data from a collection. MongoDB provides a flexible query language. Here's an example of querying to find all documents in the "products" collection where the price is less than $50:

  ```json
  // Querying documents
  db.products.find({
    "price": { $lt: 50 }
  })
  ```

- MongoDB supports various query operators (e.g., `$eq`, `$gt`, `$lt`, `$in`, `$and`, `$or`) to create complex queries to filter data based on your requirements.

## **3. Inserting and Updating Data:**

- Inserting data is done using the `insertOne` or `insertMany` method. Here's an example of inserting multiple documents into a "inventory" collection:

  ```json
  // Inserting multiple documents
  db.inventory.insertMany([
    { item: "apple", qty: 100 },
    { item: "banana", qty: 200 },
    { item: "orange", qty: 150 }
  ])
  ```

- Updating data is done using methods like `updateOne`, `updateMany`, and `replaceOne`. Here's an example of updating the quantity of apples in the "inventory" collection:

  ```json
  // Updating a document
  db.inventory.updateOne(
    { "item": "apple" },
    { $set: { "qty": 120 } }
  )
  ```